readme.md, before:

Do something to keep me occupied.o

The original reference project is here:[link](http://www.jamesmolloy.co.uk/tutorial_html/1.-Environment%20setup.html).
I did a large portion of that but stopped at dynamic memory management as I can recall.
I have lots of time to kill, why not finish it?

Some hints while redo this project:
* I was coding on a ubuntu 32bit OS back then. So if anyone works on a 64bit OS for now just like I do,
 maybe you can save the effort of building a cross-compiler target 32bit machine by running this:```sudo apt install gcc-multilib```.


* --build-id=none is needed or grub cannot find the multiboot header.

* About debugging. How to use gdb remote debug to connect qemu instance in Clion? I haven't combine the building process with debugging yet.
Config external target before initiating remote debugging. Use -daemonize for starting qemu or Clion will not proceed.Set program as 'qemu-system-i386' and
parameters as '-cdrom path_to_myos.iso -s -S -daemonize'.

* About loading the image. How to find the absolute offset of a symbol in the final elf file? E.g. Locate the multiboot header magic value.
This will help when grub says the image is not bootable, which involves the build-id linker option. objdump -j does show the answer!
The file offset printed by the command is in hex. When linked without build-id, text section begins at 0x1000 which is 4096. When linked without that flag,
it starts at 0x2000 which is 8k. It is required that the header shows up in first 8k range of the file. So the image cannot be identified with the flag.
Do check the exit status if using ```grub-file --is-x86-multiboot```. Zero means OK. I thought it prints something on invalid input.

Something not known yet. Better jotting them here as I may forget them in the future. :


required:
xorriso
qemu

Commit message:

somehow iso is not working on 16.04. but it's runnable by feeding .bin with -kernel to qemu. maybe I will fix this later.

readme.md, after:

Do something to keep me occupied.o

The original reference project is here:[link](http://www.jamesmolloy.co.uk/tutorial_html/1.-Environment%20setup.html).
I did a large portion of that but stopped at dynamic memory management as I can recall.
I have lots of time to kill, why not finish it?

Some hints while redo this project:
* I was coding on a ubuntu 32bit OS back then. So if anyone works on a 64bit OS for now just like I do,
 maybe you can save the effort of building a cross-compiler target 32bit machine by running this:```sudo apt install gcc-multilib```.


* --build-id=none is needed or grub cannot find the multiboot header.

* About debugging. How to use gdb remote debug to connect qemu instance in Clion? I haven't combine the building process with debugging yet.
Config external target before initiating remote debugging. Use -daemonize for starting qemu or Clion will not proceed.Set program as 'qemu-system-i386' and
parameters as '-cdrom path_to_myos.iso -s -S -daemonize'.

* About loading the image. How to find the absolute offset of a symbol in the final elf file? E.g. Locate the multiboot header magic value.
This will help when grub says the image is not bootable, which involves the build-id linker option. objdump -j does show the answer!
The file offset printed by the command is in hex. When linked without build-id, text section begins at 0x1000 which is 4096. When linked without that flag,
it starts at 0x2000 which is 8k. It is required that the header shows up in first 8k range of the file. So the image cannot be identified with the flag.
Do check the exit status if using ```grub-file --is-x86-multiboot```. Zero means OK. I thought it prints something on invalid input.

Something not known yet. Better jotting them here as I may forget them in the future. :


required:
xorriso(not needed is image is loaded by -kernel)
qemu
